Caption: thank you everybody for coming along
Caption: this morning to my talk I know it's
Caption: rough the coffee still hasn't quite
Caption: kicked in well the third coffee hasn't
Caption: quite kicked in yet to start off today I
Caption: want to give a quick shout out to our
Caption: sponsors without sponsors conferences
Caption: like DDD couldn't happen or at least
Caption: they wouldn't be as spectacular as they
Caption: are today so thanks to all of our
Caption: sponsors both local companies and
Caption: interstate for supporting this
Caption: conference today I want to talk to you
Caption: about CSS green haven't heard of it is a
Caption: spec that came to browsers a few years
Caption: ago and has revolutionized the way we
Caption: build layouts on the web to start off
Caption: today I want to tell you a little story
Caption: in the beginning there was darkness and
Caption: emptiness and then Tim berners-lee said
Caption: let there be Internet the internet was
Caption: much simpler in those times was just
Caption: HTML content on a page similar to how
Caption: you would see in a Word document
Caption: but pretty soon everybody got sick of
Caption: looking at times new roman' and so Tim
Caption: said let the fonts colors and sizes and
Caption: positions be changeable and then there
Caption: was CSS but before too long this wasn't
Caption: good enough either I mean he can't keep
Caption: us developers happy we wanted to do more
Caption: I was great because then we discovered
Caption: that you could use tables for creating
Caption: layouts you could break your page up
Caption: into a grid
Caption: you could put tables inside the tables
Caption: and merge cells together we finally had
Caption: better control over how our content was
Caption: being laid out on the page but before
Caption: too long we worked out
Caption: although tables inside tables is okay
Caption: tables inside tables inside tables
Caption: inside tables inside tables was not so
Caption: much fun to work with it's
Caption: getting really complex and it also made
Caption: it more difficult when we started trying
Caption: to make our websites work on different
Caption: device sizes which meant we often had to
Caption: build a completely different website for
Caption: mobile so we started using floats this
Caption: was kind of good because it meant we
Caption: were back to following the separation
Caption: sans principles which says that hTML is
Caption: for our content and CSS is for how that
Caption: content looks and fields but before too
Caption: long we also found that floats weren't
Caption: working too well either you had to clear
Caption: fix everything there were a bunch more
Caption: container divs to keep floating elements
Caption: together or apart when using media
Caption: queries you often had to reset things or
Caption: do complex calculations and you had to
Caption: use a lot of important which I know some
Caption: of you think is the answer and it makes
Caption: front-end developers cry so by the time
Caption: we'd memorized how many percent wide
Caption: each column needed to be in the six
Caption: column grid with a 1% margin we were
Caption: pretty excited to have flexbox come
Caption: along we didn't have to do percentage
Caption: math anymore it reduced the number of
Caption: media queries we needed and we were able
Caption: to easily vertically sent a content
Caption: which is something we hadn't been able
Caption: to do since tables we were finally
Caption: starting to get the functionality that
Caption: we needed out of our CSS we no longer
Caption: needed to write complicated code or work
Caption: with percentages and our code was more
Caption: responsive than ever but although
Caption: flexbox was really good for flowing
Caption: content we had limited control in the
Caption: cross access and having gaps between
Caption: items tended to get things a little
Caption: complicated but things were looking up
Caption: we finally had a CSX Technology was
Caption: built for layout and in the distance we
Caption: could see the cavalry was on its way in
Caption: 2017 CSS grid launched in all major
Caption: browsers this gave us
Caption: everything we've been asking for from
Caption: CSS layouts like flexbox we were able to
Caption: define a set of constraints and have the
Caption: browser make our layout responsive but
Caption: we were also able to control that layout
Caption: in two directions with grid we were able
Caption: to define areas of a layout we're able
Caption: to dictate how elements inside of a grid
Caption: behave we could make our code more
Caption: responsive and reduce the code that we
Caption: were writing but everybody asks isn't
Caption: this something we already had with
Caption: tables isn't CSS grid Justin you are
Caption: slightly shinier version of the table
Caption: layout that we've been scoffing out for
Caption: years
Caption: no CSS grid is specifically built for
Caption: web layouts whereas tables are something
Caption: that we used as a hack it's designed for
Caption: this use we're also following the
Caption: separation of concerns principles hTML
Caption: is for the content and CSS is for how
Caption: that content looks and feels on a page
Caption: now don't get me wrong tables still have
Caption: a place but that would be when you'd
Caption: expect to see a table see a table of
Caption: data not for your layout CSS grid also
Caption: helps us to write semantic and logical
Caption: HTML we're no longer required to write
Caption: our HTML based on how the page design
Caption: looks like we can write our HTML based
Caption: on the logical flow of the document and
Caption: let CSS rearrange it visually when this
Caption: is done right it means that our content
Caption: is more accessible to anybody who's
Caption: using a screen reader reader mode saving
Caption: an article for later or any other kind
Caption: of assistive technology
Caption: thanks to CSS grid it's now easier and
Caption: faster to mock up or to build out the
Caption: layout of an app and to prove that today
Caption: we're going to build and note-taking out
Caption: using CSS grid we've got a wireframe
Caption: which tells us how we want our
Caption: look and we've got a basic HTML
Caption: structure now it's also important to
Caption: note that this is a semantic HTML
Caption: structure there are no container divs
Caption: there is nothing extra this is pure
Caption: semantic HTML so we don't know what
Caption: happens next right this is when we spend
Caption: hours fighting with trying to get the
Caption: layout to work and we've got a
Caption: completely restructure how the HTML
Caption: looks see what happens
Caption: so our HTML structure loosely looks like
Caption: this except for with some beautiful
Caption: backgrounds and effects so you can see
Caption: the different elements in a grid to
Caption: start off we're going to use something
Caption: fairly simple and we're going to say
Caption: body display grid which tells the
Caption: browser we're using grid now this
Caption: doesn't do too much it looks exactly as
Caption: it did before because we haven't told it
Caption: what a grid looks like you next we want
Caption: to tell the browser how big our grid is
Caption: so if we have a look again at our
Caption: wireframe we're going to break our app
Caption: up into five columns so to define that
Caption: we use the property grid template
Caption: columns and so here I can write good
Caption: tempeh columns joiner pixels turn pixels
Caption: 200 pixels 200 pixels 200 pixels now I
Caption: said you could write less code it's grid
Caption: denied this seems a bit difficult what
Caption: happens if you want a 10 column grid
Caption: something else great gives us is the
Caption: repeat function so I can instead say
Caption: repeat 5 200 pixels the repeat function
Caption: allows us to define a number of times to
Caption: repeat something and the size of the
Caption: column that it's repeating for example 3
Caption: 200 pixels would give us George 200
Caption: pixels 200 pixels 200 pixels great thing
Caption: about the repeat function is you can use
Caption: whatever units you would like you can
Caption: use pixels percentage ms ramps for pop
Caption: widths viewport height anything goes
Caption: you can also use it to define a path for
Caption: example repeat to 10 pixels 20 viewport
Caption: whets would give you 10 pixels 20
Caption: viewport width 10 pixels 20 of your
Caption: twits try saying that 10 times quickly
Caption: so instead of writing with a fixed width
Caption: I could go repeat 5 20 % so that way I
Caption: don't have a fixed pixel size of the
Caption: container will just take 20 percent but
Caption: then what if I want to change the size
Caption: of my grid say I want to have 7 colors
Caption: then I've got to work out how wide I
Caption: don't want to do that math so instead I
Caption: could say repeat 5 105 now the FI unit
Caption: is another new thing which comes to CSS
Caption: grid and is often used in the place of
Caption: percentage widths it's a little bit
Caption: difficult to explain so I'm going to try
Caption: and explain it visually say for example
Caption: I have a grid where I have 100 pixels
Caption: 1fr 50 pixels to Fr I also want to have
Caption: a gap between each of those columns of
Caption: 20 pixels we're going to touch on the
Caption: gap a bit more later so what the FI unit
Caption: does is it takes 100% of the element
Caption: widths which in this case is 510 pixels
Caption: and then takes into account any existing
Caption: content that we've set and here we've
Caption: got a hundred pixel column and a 50
Caption: pixel column so that's 150 pixels it
Caption: then takes into account any gap that
Caption: we've got so we've got 20 pixel gap
Caption: between 4 columns which means there's a
Caption: total gap of 60 pixels it then looks at
Caption: how many fr-s there are so here we've
Caption: got 1 fr to Fr
Caption: total of 3 fr anybody able to do that
Caption: mass
Caption: in this case when FR is equal to hundred
Caption: pixels so that grid would become 100
Caption: pixels 100 pixels 50 pixels 200 pixels
Caption: sorry if I have a look at my grid again
Caption: repeat 5 whenever that's saying that I
Caption: want to have 5 columns all of which
Caption: should be equal widths
Caption: this means that if I change the number
Caption: of columns in my grid I don't have to
Caption: work out the percentage anymore the
Caption: browser is going to do it for me
Caption: so if we have a look at what that looks
Caption: like in our grid you can see our
Caption: elements have now started to lay
Caption: themselves out on the grid they've taken
Caption: out four columns out of our five column
Caption: grid it because there's only four
Caption: elements there next we're going to
Caption: define the roads so if we have a look at
Caption: our wireframe again we have three rows
Caption: here we've got the header the main
Caption: section and then the footer row so we're
Caption: going to use a similar property grid
Caption: template rows and I'm just going to
Caption: define 100 pixels 1fr 20 pixels so fixed
Caption: header and footer and then the main
Caption: content
Caption: next we want to stop placing out
Caption: elements in the grade so to start off we
Caption: want to tell it where our head is going
Caption: to sit so we're going to define grid of
Caption: columns stop this says where we want our
Caption: header to start which is at line one in
Caption: the grid so right at the very beginning
Caption: now CSS grid defines each of numbers
Caption: each of its lines goes right from the
Caption: beginning one two three four five six
Caption: but then CSS grid also counts those
Caption: backwards so minus one when it's two -
Caption: three - four - five - six this is really
Caption: useful because say we want our header to
Caption: go all the way across the top I could
Caption: just say one to six but then if I change
Caption: how many columns wide oh great is I need
Caption: to change which line it's going to
Caption: instead I can say 1 2 minus 1 which is
Caption: right at the end so it doesn't matter
Caption: how wide the grid is the head is gonna
Caption: go from 1 all the way to minus 1 can
Caption: also use the shorthand so grid column 1
Caption: / - 1 there's a lot of different ways
Caption: that you can define the grid column as
Caption: well it really depends on the situation
Caption: so for example you can also say grid
Caption: column span 5 so I want to suspend 5
Caption: columns but today as we said the header
Caption: should go all the way across the top so
Caption: we're gonna say grid column 1 / - 1
Caption: which has now stretched our header all
Caption: the way across the top you can see the
Caption: rest of the elements have now been
Caption: pushed down on to the second row you
Caption: know grid so to get somewhere next we
Caption: want to assign the nav so we want the
Caption: nav to take up our just the first column
Caption: but the second and third row so we're
Caption: going to define read row span - so we
Caption: want it to span two rows we don't need
Caption: to define read column cuz it's only
Caption: gonna spend one column so you can see
Caption: our nav has now pushed down on to the
Caption: bottom row as well
Caption: next we want to assign our main content
Caption: so that's where our main note is and
Caption: we're gonna say main grid column span
Caption: before we want it to spend four columns
Caption: which pushes that all the way out and
Caption: then you can see the footer has been
Caption: pushed down to the bottom finally we
Caption: want our foot out to take up the
Caption: remainder of the grid so we're gonna say
Caption: grid column span four and you can see
Caption: the footer has now pushed all the way
Caption: out to the end and filled our grid in
Caption: now one of the other useful things about
Caption: CSS grid is it gives us the ability to
Caption: name these areas which makes it a bit
Caption: easier for when laying elements out in
Caption: your grid so once we've defined our
Caption: columns and rows we can also use grid
Caption: template areas and actually assign names
Caption: to them and where different areas are
Caption: combining so for example you can see
Caption: here there's one word for each column
Caption: and one row for one line for each row in
Caption: our grid the top should be all header
Caption: the name should be the first column of
Caption: the second and third row the note should
Caption: go the rest of the way along second row
Caption: and the footer should go the rest of the
Caption: way along the bottom row
Caption: this is really good because it makes it
Caption: much easier when you're rearranging a
Caption: layout you can just rearrange the grid
Caption: template areas here once we've defined
Caption: these we then go through and assign grid
Caption: areas to each of our elements in the
Caption: grid henna grid area header now grid
Caption: area now naming things is hard Maine is
Caption: grid area no it's just to be a little
Caption: bit different and footer is red area
Caption: footer so this will look pretty much
Caption: exactly like what it did before now this
Caption: is where one of the useful tools for CSS
Caption: crude comes into play anybody here use
Caption: Firefox as their main tab browser if
Caption: you're using CSS grid you need to
Caption: install it and use it because they have
Caption: a grid inspector tool which is amazing
Caption: particularly when you're getting
Caption: started and then even when you use it
Caption: every day degra inspector tool is
Caption: fantastic
Caption: Firefox gritty inspector allows you to
Caption: allows you to inspect your grid and have
Caption: a look at what's going on you can
Caption: overlay any named areas you can see
Caption: lines it is a complete life changer if
Caption: you're using grid so make sure you're
Caption: using that so basic layout over app done
Caption: in seven lines of CSS and about ten
Caption: minutes that's pretty impressive anybody
Caption: think that was but if we have a look at
Caption: our wireframe again what we actually
Caption: wanted in the middle so we actually
Caption: wanted our note to take up most of the
Caption: section but it had a little sidebar
Caption: there as well where a lot of the meta
Caption: info and all of the tags are but if you
Caption: have a look that's not really what it
Caption: looks like right now so those are still
Caption: taking up the main section the middle we
Caption: want the article to take up just the
Caption: first three columns and side by to taper
Caption: fourth column so here we can use another
Caption: property which we would apply to the
Caption: main element which is display contents
Caption: now what display contents does is so if
Caption: we have a look at our main element here
Caption: got a main element inside of that is an
Caption: article and a side element and both of
Caption: those have their own content inside of
Caption: it what display contents does is
Caption: basically makes that main element
Caption: disappear and so article and a side then
Caption: become children of the grid instead of
Caption: main element so if we assign display
Caption: contents to the main element that will
Caption: then make article and a side take up
Caption: there or in separate columns in the grid
Caption: rather than taking up the full section
Caption: and we can then place them similarly to
Caption: how we placed the rest of the elements
Caption: so we can reject our
Caption: template areas here so the middle row
Caption: instead of being note note note note it
Caption: should just be no no sigh note note
Caption: notes sidebar so that notes takes up
Caption: three columns sidebar takes up the final
Caption: column we can then assign a grid area to
Caption: article and a side and that pushes the
Caption: article out and keeps the sidebar in the
Caption: end that's pretty cool one thing that's
Caption: worth noting though is so there's a bug
Caption: and it so it's not meant to happen and
Caption: it's only in some browsers but in some
Caption: browsers when you apply display contents
Caption: to an element for example the main
Caption: element it makes the whole thing
Caption: disappear including the children so you
Caption: know how display contents is meant to do
Caption: this in these browsers according to
Caption: screen readers it does this
Caption: so it will still appear on the page so
Caption: when you're looking at it you may look
Caption: at it and go it's fine the contents
Caption: there it's fine but if you're not
Caption: testing with screen readers the screen
Caption: reader doesn't know it's there it
Caption: doesn't announce it and so anybody who's
Caption: using assistive technology won't get
Caption: anything that's inside of that element
Caption: there's a bit more information about
Caption: what's going on with this hearing this
Caption: really great article by Adrian Roselli I
Caption: don't worry about taking notes of all of
Caption: these resources they will be tweeted out
Caption: hands-free as I'm going along and also
Caption: on my slides at the end the gist of this
Caption: article though is just don't go messing
Caption: with the dot don't don't play with the
Caption: Dom thankfully there is a better
Caption: alternative CSS subgrid has come to the
Caption: rescue
Caption: so we want we want out layout to look
Caption: like this rather than making the main
Caption: element disappear we can just as we can
Caption: just align the article and a side
Caption: elements as part of the main grid now
Caption: you can define a separate grid on main
Caption: and just completely do it that way which
Caption: is fine but then if you change the size
Caption: of the overall parent grid you go to
Caption: change the size of the child grid it
Caption: gets complicated sub grid allows you to
Caption: define it so that it aligns with the
Caption: parent grid so if we take our grid
Caption: template areas back here so where it
Caption: says note note note note all the way
Caption: along where it was looking like that we
Caption: then want to instead of display contents
Caption: we want to say display grip so that
Caption: looks like that that's now filling out
Caption: the whole area that it's got
Caption: now rather than defining that this grid
Caption: should be four columns wide and then
Caption: having to redefine it when the parent
Caption: grid changes what we can instead do is
Caption: say grid template columns sub grid so we
Caption: want it to take into account however
Caption: many columns the main element does you
Caption: have a look yeah you can see our article
Caption: and aside have now taken places as part
Caption: of the parent grid even though their
Caption: grandchildren elements all we have to do
Caption: then is a sign where article and a side
Caption: would sit inside of that sub grid sir
Caption: article grid column span three and
Caption: that's pushed it way out so this one
Caption: will work with screen readers
Caption: now subgrade is still relatively new
Caption: there's lots of information about it
Caption: though the Mozilla dev Doc's are
Caption: fantastic they've got lots of
Caption: information also Rachel Andrew has a lot
Caption: of really great blog posts and talks on
Caption: it if you're looking for a more
Caption: information one of the other questions
Caption: that comes up with grid is does it
Caption: replace flexbox if I haven't learnt
Caption: either of them can I just learn three
Caption: then don't have to worry about flexbox
Caption: do I not use flexbox do I just use grid
Caption: everywhere now let me ask you a question
Caption: batgirls pretty awesome right she kicks
Caption: ass black is also pretty awesome
Caption: but do we question whether or not we
Caption: only need one of them no they form a
Caption: super crime-fighting duo so CSS grid is
Caption: really awesome as great for layouts and
Caption: face box is also really awesome and it's
Caption: great for flowing content and centering
Caption: things vertically which is massive over
Caption: use of a fairly technical spec so
Caption: therefore grid and flex box form a super
Caption: CSS layout do it these two specs both
Caption: complement each other yes you could
Caption: replace everything with Flex box with
Caption: grid but a lot of the time it's overkill
Caption: if I'm doing something like a navbar
Caption: I'm gonna go flex box every time if I'm
Caption: trying to send her something vertically
Caption: see me flex box but if I'm building out
Caption: the layout of an app then yes I'm going
Caption: to use CSS grid it's worth using both of
Caption: them and knowing which one you should
Caption: use when now if I take away all of my
Caption: beautiful background colors and effects
Caption: this is looking pretty good I mean I
Caption: wouldn't say ship it but we've got a
Caption: pretty good actor there
Caption: and considering how much code we've
Caption: written that's pretty impressive
Caption: but this is okay while I've only got a
Caption: couple of notes I really want an overall
Caption: view where I can see them all at once so
Caption: we're gonna build a different view where
Caption: we've got cards so to do this again
Caption: we're going to define columns so we're
Caption: gonna say grid template columns 100 300
Caption: pixels now this is okay but this means
Caption: don't grid these feet 3,000 pixels wide
Caption: it's not very responsive is it so
Caption: instead I'm gonna say repeat autofill
Caption: surrounded pixels
Caption: now autofill is something else that
Caption: comes with the repeat function there's
Caption: two of them
Caption: autofill and autofit and there's a
Caption: really great visual representation in
Caption: its code penned by sarasota which shows
Caption: them now autofill fills the row as many
Caption: columns as it can fit even if you don't
Caption: have enough elements to fill them
Caption: whereas auto fit put in as many column
Caption: as many columns as it needs for the
Caption: elements and then stretches them out to
Caption: take up the extra space or you can just
Caption: do what I do and just flick between the
Caption: two them until it does the one that you
Caption: want to do this is like the one thing I
Caption: still have to read off my slides because
Caption: I could not switch so if I say repeat
Caption: autofill anyone remember which one that
Caption: does as many columns as you can fit even
Caption: if we're not going to need them so
Caption: repeat autofill hundred pixels it's many
Caption: hundred pixel columns as you can fit in
Caption: so if we have a look at our columns we
Caption: say autofill 300 pixels as many 300
Caption: pixel columns as you can fit even if
Caption: we're not going to need them but then we
Caption: may what happens if we've got say 250
Caption: pixels left over that's not enough for a
Caption: column and our grids not going to line
Caption: up with everything else which may be
Caption: okay but the designer says everything's
Caption: got to line up perfectly so instead
Caption: we're gonna say repeat autofill min/max
Caption: 300 pixels when fr now min max does what
Caption: you'd expect it to it defines a minimum
Caption: maximum again you can use any unit you
Caption: like pixels M's ramps percentage report
Caption: wits if you put Heights the FI unit we
Caption: learned earlier you can use them all so
Caption: minimum of 100 pixels maximum of 20 whew
Caption: port widths minimum of 100 pixels
Caption: maximum of 1f our minimum of 1f our
Caption: maximum
Caption: 300 pixels these all work so I can go
Caption: repeat autofill as many columns as we
Caption: can fit even if we don't need them min
Caption: max 300 pixels so there should be 300
Caption: pixels wide at least but then expand out
Caption: to take extra space that means if we
Caption: have 250 pixels left over it's going to
Caption: expand to make sure the grid aligns
Caption: where it should so you can see here our
Caption: cards have now taken their places
Caption: columns but nice little compact cards
Caption: that looks really weird so we're gonna
Caption: define group rows as well and when you
Caption: say grid template rows repeat or don't
Caption: fill as many as we can fit even if we
Caption: don't need them and they're just gonna
Caption: be 150 pixels high that's not bad
Caption: nice little cards but they're fairly
Caption: cramped so we want to add a gap between
Caption: them and so this is where we're going to
Caption: use the gap property that we touched on
Caption: earlier and so I wanted to fine grid a
Caption: column gap 20 pixels so this says that
Caption: between each of the columns I want a 20
Caption: pixels gap I then want to have a gap
Caption: between each of the rows so I'm gonna
Caption: say grid where gap 20 pixels or I can
Caption: use the shorthand and just say grid gap
Caption: 20 pixels because I want it to be the
Caption: same gap between each row and each
Caption: column now one question people often ask
Caption: is will work why can't I just use
Caption: margins I can just use margins for that
Caption: because margins have issues for this so
Caption: you've probably encountered things like
Caption: this where you things putting a margin
Caption: means it doesn't line up properly so
Caption: you've got to add a negative margin so
Caption: the children are out where they should
Caption: be or you get to do these lovely and
Caption: child recipes where well every fifth one
Caption: shouldn't have one on the right and
Caption: every fifth one plus one shouldn't have
Caption: one on the left and the first five
Caption: shouldn't have one on the top and the
Caption: last five shouldn't have one on the
Caption: bottom
Caption: which then changes when your grid
Caption: changes sides or
Caption: grid gap 20 pixels so if we add that
Caption: we're now starting to get nice little
Caption: gaps between each of our cards now this
Caption: is where we can also have a look at five
Caption: hooks this grid inspector again and we
Caption: can see these are all the spaces we've
Caption: got in our grid even though we don't
Caption: actually need them and you can also see
Caption: the gap between each of them
Caption: so again if you doing grid use Firefox's
Caption: grid inspector I swear they're not
Caption: paying me I just believe in it that much
Caption: now again if we take away all my
Caption: beautiful colors it's not bad right it's
Caption: pretty good now is it just me what is
Caption: this sound too good to be true like this
Caption: would clearly make our lives easier
Caption: what's the catch
Caption: what am I not mentioning yeah so it's
Caption: better it's better than you might think
Caption: so as I said this has been around since
Caption: 2017 and for the first time it kind of
Caption: all happened at once because CSS grid
Caption: was actually developed under a feature
Caption: flag which meant that when we were all
Caption: getting it all the kinks were pretty
Caption: much ironed out so chrome has had it
Caption: since 57 Firefox since 52 Safari since
Caption: 10.1 edge since 16 and with it that's
Caption: that's all the browsers writers
Caption: so I sort of so I II was actually the
Caption: first browser to implement CSS grit I
Caption: know right mind-blowing but they did it
Caption: way way back when it was a completely
Caption: different version of spec and because
Caption: it's no look I maintained and it hasn't
Caption: actually been updated so ie does a
Caption: completely different thing with
Caption: depending on what you're doing it may
Caption: still work for you you can find their
Caption: version of the spec if you're bored or
Caption: really procrastinating or have
Caption: difficulty sleeping and find out to see
Caption: if that would work for you otherwise it
Caption: may be best to just leave it alone now
Caption: what are these numbers actually mean
Caption: well globally we're looking at 91%
Caption: support for CSS grid that's pretty good
Caption: right um so so you know how we use sub
Caption: grid before the really cool thing that
Caption: changed everything and was just really
Caption: great so um what I didn't mention so the
Caption: sub grid launched about two months ago
Caption: in Firefox nightly not even Firefox dev
Caption: version firefox nightly only so you
Caption: definitely cannot use these in
Caption: production but it is available to start
Caption: playing around with so I got to use it
Caption: myself for the first time when I was
Caption: updating this talk a few months ago I
Caption: was really exciting to get to do
Caption: something so new so download Firefox
Caption: nightly and have a look if you're
Caption: interested remember flex box has been
Caption: around for a while longer so their
Caption: supports looking fairly good 98% and in
Caption: my opinion there is two percent
Caption: remaining they can deal with it there is
Caption: two percent a user websites not
Caption: one of the other great things we have
Caption: with this is the supports query so the
Caption: supports query if you haven't used it
Caption: before is a CSS query that allows us to
Caption: define a CSS property and a value and
Caption: then code it inside of it
Caption: and if the browser doesn't know what to
Caption: do with the property in value
Caption: it won't use the code now supports is
Caption: fairly new like it's been around for a
Caption: while but it is still failing you the
Caption: great thing is if a browser doesn't know
Caption: what to do with supports there is no way
Caption: it's gonna know what to do with grid and
Caption: it's just gonna ignore the whole lot
Caption: anyway so for example I can say supports
Caption: display grid I can put my grid code
Caption: inside of this and if a browser doesn't
Caption: know what to do with that it's not gonna
Caption: use the grid code this is really useful
Caption: because it means we're not delivering
Caption: code to browsers where they're not
Caption: supporting the properties that we're
Caption: using there is one issue with this so
Caption: cuz remember this guy sorry if you give
Caption: it supports display grid are you guys I
Caption: know this I know this one I know son I
Caption: can do it I got it except it's using a
Caption: completely different spec so depending
Caption: on what properties you're using it's
Caption: it's got no clue what any of the code
Caption: inside of your supports query is doing
Caption: or it does something completely
Caption: different to what you're expecting the
Caption: great thing is though you can instead do
Caption: a supports query for a property that it
Caption: doesn't support for example grid
Caption: template areas you don't actually need
Caption: to define areas you can just say dot to
Caption: say there is an area and I look at this
Caption: and go no no clue and it will leave it
Caption: all alone so
Caption: what you can do is just sew supports
Caption: display supports grid template areas and
Caption: then put all of your grid code inside of
Caption: it that means that any of those browsers
Caption: that don't know what to do with it
Caption: they're just not going to touch it this
Caption: is pretty awesome right this is exciting
Caption: you can use this you can go back I know
Caption: you can all go back to your team you can
Caption: go yes I learn about this thing was a
Caption: really amazing talk that I totally rated
Caption: five stars for it gave really great
Caption: feedback and we should start using this
Caption: now and I know exactly what your team is
Caption: going to say
Caption: but so today I'm gonna give you answers
Caption: so that BOTS but there's not enough
Caption: support 91 percent that's pretty good
Caption: support
Caption: it is completely depends on your UK use
Caption: case anyone from Bank West I'm really
Caption: sorry I know you can't use this I used
Caption: to work at banquets it's fine I know the
Caption: deal you've also got the supports query
Caption: so remember if someone doesn't support
Caption: it they're not gonna get grid code but
Caption: then we have to write a fallback does
Caption: your layout currently work in those
Caption: browsers you've only got one your
Caption: current code is your fallback you can
Caption: just write a great alternative and tired
Caption: of it supports free now will only go to
Caption: the browsers that can do it but we don't
Caption: have time to do all of that the secret
Caption: is you don't actually have to use this
Caption: everywhere pick one thing
Caption: the blog page one particular layout in a
Caption: part of your application or website
Caption: implement grid down then go from there
Caption: but then will have to maintain it who
Caption: here uses bootstrap at work
Caption: guess what CSS grid is CSS there aren't
Caption: frameworks to update and maintain and
Caption: check to see whether or not something's
Caption: broken this will literally take less
Caption: time to maintain than whatever you're
Caption: using now it's just CSS so to sum up my
Caption: talk I can't cover the really amazing
Caption: points the really important points CSS
Caption: grid is awesome though is it right was
Caption: it yeah no in all seriousness CSS grid
Caption: is amazing it is fantastic to use it
Caption: makes your life easier there are so
Caption: times when I realize I can use grid for
Caption: something or a particular use case I can
Caption: I can do this grid and there's a mic
Caption: drop moment and a happy dance and my dog
Caption: looks at me weird because I work at home
Caption: by myself and so there's no one there to
Caption: see the happy dance and and then I
Caption: message my boss all my friends go I can
Caption: do this thing with grid and they have no
Caption: clue what I'm talking about
Caption: well she will now she's sitting right at
Caption: the back but she hasn't been listening
Caption: so she still has no clue what I'm doing
Caption: there are a lot of really great
Caption: resources out there again I'm tweeting
Caption: these out as we speak so don't worry if
Caption: I'm going through them too fast CSS
Caption: tricks has a really amazing guide to
Caption: grid I use these every day I'm pretty
Caption: sure I really messed up their stats when
Caption: I wrote this talk because I was
Caption: constantly reloading the page because
Caption: they'd close it and come straight back
Caption: to it if you're wanting to get started
Caption: where's boss has a really amazing CSS
Caption: grid course guess what it's free if
Caption: you're familiar with any is JavaScript
Caption: talks so JavaScript
Caption: horses you can have a look at that one
Caption: even if you're the kind of person who
Caption: doesn't like doing video courses I
Caption: recommend looking anyway I hate doing
Caption: video courses but these ones are great
Caption: if you're a little bit more
Caption: old-fashioned no I'm not making fun of
Caption: you I have this book this is a really
Caption: great book from Rachel Andrew goes
Caption: through a lot about CSS layout
Caption: particularly CSS grid really anything by
Caption: Rachel Andrew is is good for grid she's
Caption: got a lot of blog posts and talks as
Caption: well as written books I would actually
Caption: recommend anything by Rachel Andrew or
Caption: Jenn Simmons I would like to credit them
Caption: with creating grid but I have absolutely
Caption: no idea if that's true they just do a
Caption: lot of talking about it if you're
Caption: looking for a really fun way to do it
Caption: you can use CSS grid garden which is a
Caption: nice fun way to learn all of the
Caption: different grid properties and if you
Caption: haven't learned so Xbox yet or you want
Caption: to refresher they also have flexbox
Caption: froggie thank you everybody for having
Caption: me along
Caption: [Applause]